
My interest in this stock price prediction project started when I first began programming back in early December of 2020. I had already been interested in the stock market for a while, and when I found out you could use mathematics to assess the value and possible future value of a stock, I thought it would be a great project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Put simply, my project is a Python program that applies linear and polynomial regression to past data in order to determine if a stock is undervalued, overvalued, or correctly valued and predicts a fair price for the said stock. The practice of using mathematics/programming to predict stock prices is called quantitative finance. Basically what my project is, is the most simple form of this quantitative finance. My code has 3 main functions. The first is collecting the data. I did this by downloading price data from Yahoo Finance, and then cleaning the data up in Excel. The second job of the code is to plot this data as a line on a graph. It does this by using each day as a plot point and then simply connecting the dots. The final and main duty of the code is to fit linear and polynomial regression models to the previously plotted data. These are also graphed as lines and give me most of my information; if the valuation of the stock is correct, and a fair price based on the model. This entire process is related to my desired career field of data science in a number of ways. First off, programming is a huge part of the job, especially writing/using code that implements math, which this project did. Secondly, the data scraping and cleaning parts of the project. Many data scientists say that this is the worst part of their job and I can see why. I was only working with a couple of month’s worth of price data and cleaning it was by far the most tedius part of this project. The final skill that this project helped me learn that’s related to my career field was data visualization. Although I kept it simple with graphing in Python, Excel, and Sheets; these are still very commonly used in the data science industry. After all this, however, I am sad to say that, I don’t think my current model is up to the task of accurately predicting future stock prices. Although I had an accuracy rating of 84%, I believe that my code did not show me that it is accurate enough to use yet. (The accuracy rating fell to just 33% when market volatility was low (Indicated by VIX graph).). 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
After completing this project, I am still interested in the data science field. Especially if I can use what I learn to improve my model to the point where it can be implemented. In terms of what I would like to do right now relating to the field, I would like to job shadow a data scientist or a data analyst to see what they do from day to day. My biggest takeaway from this project would have to be the conclusion that stock prices do not follow a linear or polynomial regression model. Now that I know this, I can focus on using other mathematical models to try and predict them. 
	
	
